
MAPLIB subroutine library
-------------------------

Map handling subroutine library.

MAPLIB contains a set of subroutines for handling radio astronomy maps
from applications programs running on the ND-5xxx/SPARC processors.  The maps
are assumed to be held in standard MRAO-ND map format, which is described
in full on maplib_redtape.inc.

Sections:

The routines are arranged under the following headings:

  (1)  Parameter input routines.
  (2)  Map file handling routines.
  (3)  Redtape handling routines.
  (4)  Map data handling routines.
  (5)  Map projection handling routines.
  (6)  Coordinate conversion routines.

Notes:

Note that a comprehensive set of routines for astrometric calculations and
coordinate conversions is available in the SLALIB library.

Use of the routines:

  Most map processing is done by reading in the complete map to a data
  array within the application program, having first loaded the redtape
  common blocks with all the parameters which describe the map.  The data
  are processed and, if a new map is being produced, the redtape is adjusted
  appropriately and then both redtape and data are written out to a new map
  file.  Note that although the redtape makes provision for multiple-valued
  maps, the data handling routines included here assume that only single-
  valued data is being processed.

Projections:

  Parameters specifying the map projection are included in the redtape
  and these are used during coordinate conversion from map grid points
  to spherical coordinates.  The projection parameters are automatically
  loaded into the coordinate conversion routines when the redtape is read
  from a map file, but they may also be set up explicitly for an arbitrary
  projection by using routine STPROJ.  The parameters describing the
  current projection are defined in maplib_proj.inc.

Aperture_data:

  Aperture data may also be processed using the routines of this library.
  The data is held using an extension of the map data format, with a
  complex*8 internal data type, where each data point consists of a
  (cos,sin) pair of real*4 values.

Errors:

  Most of the map handling routines include a STATUS value which is checked
  on entry: if the value is not zero (OK), the routine will exit immediately.
  The STATUS value will normally be zero on exit;  error conditions are
  signalled by positive values (SYSTEM error codes) or negative values
  (local error codes).  A list of the error codes local to MAPLIB can be
  found on the file  maplib_errors.inc.  This file may be used
  as an INCLUDE file within an application program to make the local error
  codes available for testing.  Note that most errors will generate a
  message to the error device from within the MAPLIB routine.

Specifications:

Use the SCAN-FILES utility to obtain details of individual routines:

  scan_files "/mrao/source/maplib/map*.f" spec <routine>,,

Loading:

  You should use the MRAO command mraolink:

    f77 -u -xl program.f -o program `mraolink`

MRAO, Cambridge.
DJT, 28 October 87.
DJT/PA, 10 October 91: SUNOS version 1.0


